hi this is who Leon from minute earth in
the 1960s Americans realized they'd
inadvertently driven the bald eagle
their own national mascot to near
extinction through a combination of
habitat destruction and accidental
poisoning today another extinction event
is happening under eerily similar
conditions but it's happening on the
microscopic level inside our guts
microbes evolved to live in our
intestines back when our hunter-gatherer
diet men our guts were full of grasses
fruits and nuts but today much like we
converted eagles habitat from prime
waterfront hunting grounds to prime
waterfront properties we've traded that
Paleo diet for a processed diet that
lacks the fiber and complex carbs that
some microbes evolved to munch and in
another gut-wrenching turn of events
much like we overused the pesticide DDT
which poisoned bald eagles and
interfered with their baby-making
we've overused antibiotics which
indiscriminately attack our microbiome
poisoning lots of good gut bacteria when
the bald eagles notorious birds of prey
disappeared the lack of competition
caused the gull population to explode
and in turn they preyed on smaller
endangered birds and spread diseases
like salmonella
similarly gut bacteria like prevotella
which break our food down into nutrients
that can regulate our immune system are
disappearing from our guts and in some
cases leaving space for explosions of
bacteria like c-diff which can cause
diarrhea and inflammation and
potentially lead to other metabolic
diseases like diabetes the good news is
that we were able to bring bald eagles
back from the brink the US government
stopped people from destroying bald
eagle habitats and building over them
they bred bald eaglets and transported
others from parts of the US where their
numbers were still strong to reintroduce
them to their old sowing grounds and
when we found out DDT was poisoning bald
eagles we limited its use to public
health emergencies so how can we apply
all these strategies to saving the micro
Eagles of our guts well for starters we
can bring that essential fiber back into
our diets which are make our gut
habitats more well habitable for those
missing microbes and we can take
bacteria like patella which are common
in the hunter-gatherer halves of people
of Tanzania and add them to the guts of
people who need them via probiotic pills
and we can curb our use of antibiotics
only using them for
medical cases where they're actually
useful and not you know for the sniffles
if we take the right measures to protect
their habitat we can ensure our gut
bacteria like bald eagles before them
don't leave an empty nest this video is
sponsored by the University of Minnesota
where students faculty and staff across
all fields of study are working to solve
the grand challenges facing society one
of these challenges is enhancing
individual and community capacity for a
changing world which includes
researching how the modern changes to
our diet have affected our health
professor Ron Blackmon at the College of
Biological Sciences and professor and
the desk Ulmus at the College of food
agricultural and natural resource
Sciences are studying how these new
diets have affected the makeup and
evolution of our microbiome and how
those changes are associated with
certain diseases
Thanks University of Minnesota
[Music]